
Notes from the meeting on December 7th, 2021.

Presentations
=========

Status presentation by Jari Arkko, followed by brief listing of potential ways forward. The presentation is available here: https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/model-t/Mb7UuMMbEvXcD5XrsOj8icKwj1c/2/

Discussion
=======

Eliot Lear:
*  Troublesome scope (people in rats, suit etc working on new way forward, multiple trust anchors, multiple components, ...)
* For 3552 update, you should create a WG. But IAB work should be more than that though. A broader  scope, including evolving trust models, incl. evolution in chip design.
  
Mark McFadden:
* Wants route to closure
* There's really two tracks: principles and threat models (the latter perhaps not at the iab). Principle drafts are good for the iab. However, on  the threat model side, RFC 3552 is from 2003. There is  no one who  thinks the threat model is current.
* But so far, we didn't have a way to transfer the work to the 3552. Unlike Eliot Mark believes should go away and do something about 3552.

Martin Thomson:
* Likes Mark's two approaches.
* Original goal was incubation of the threat model until we can push it over to the IETF, but we failed. We didn't really take the endpoint  security all the way to the complex multi-faceded thing that is not easy to reason  about. And Martin is not sure the work in suit etc. is far enough for us to take that forward yet.
* Martin likes the principes approach  and the two documents, not  clear though if this is the right forum for their processing. Enough participation?

John Mattsson:
* What's important is updated threat model. your device, your intermediary, and other endpoint are not always 100% trusted.
* Maybe an update is harder, than a new document. It would be good to publish a separate document.

Mallory Knodel:
* The current work falls in two categories, agree with Martin. IAB should prioritize what it wants to do.
* But Mallory also agree with Eliot that we need to look at the long-term view. Maybe IRTF group on that topic?

Colin Perkins:
* Some of this was originally proposed in IRTF, didn't fit there necessarily.
* Colin agrees with view that RFC 3552 updates need to be in IETF.
* Also agree principles go for IAB.
* Unclear what's left.

Chris Wood:
* Some topics are already discussed in  the context of PPM WG.
* Jari commented that PPM is very useful and in the right direction of course. But a very specific, narrow part of the overall  issue.

Martin Thomson:
* +1 to ppm
* Maybe there's a piecewise evolution here.

Summary by Jari Arkko

Eliot Lear:
* Eliot don't want to hold up moving forward, but continues to be worried about who is in charge of the bigger picture and future changes.

Mirja Kuehlewind:
* There's definitely work  to be done. But not clear if they are for the program. Principles and docs could be progressed in the IAB without a program. Is model-t useful as a program?

Jim Reid:
* Jim agrees with Mirja, but if we close down model-t it sends a wrong signal.
* We seem to be talking  about what's the right forum for piece X. We need to step back of what tthings are priority and achievable, and proiritize them. What are achievable deliverables?

Mirja Kuehlewind:
* History in coming up with the threat model is not a good experience. Agree though with the perception, and given the importance of these issues for the Internet, if we were to do something to close Model-T, we could have an alternative plan/forum.

Jim Reid:
* We need more modesty & pragmatism. Do what we can reasonably achieve.

Mark McFadden:
* I also agree with Mirja, but perhaps what we need is a plan, a kind of a roadmap to closure?

Next steps
=======

The discussion converged on finding a way to progress the two main areas of work -- threat model evolution and specific sets of principles. Two small teams will come up with a plan for their area, and Model-T will meet again in January to review.

* Jari, with Martin & other interested, to discuss how to move forward with principles documents. Suggest a scope and process and forum. E.g., responsibility for the IAB and document authors, with feedback from Model-T participants. 

* Mark, with Eliot, John, Martin, Jari & other interested, to discuss how to move forward with threat model evolution, e.g., specific steps how the work can move to IETF, what needs to be done before that, and where in IETF we'd suggest the work to happen.



