
# IAB model-t programme 20200420 concall

Call details were:

Run on webex at https://ietf.webex.com/ietf/j.php?MTID=ma0d9b9c9faaf6d5e6d76634f3297d7da  and the call time was April 20 2020, 1900 UTC.

Etherpad was at  https://etherpad.ietf.org/p/model-t-notes-20200420

## Agenda

0. Administrivia/agenda-bash
* Get minute taker. Thanks Watson!
* Turn on recording!
1. Drafts
* For each draft where we have a willing person: a brief description of the draft and recent changes, followed by comments/Q&A from meeting participants.
* https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-mcfadden-smart-endpoint-taxonomy-for-cless (slides: https://down.dsg.cs.tcd.ie/misc/draft-mcfadden-smart-endpoint-taxonomy-for-cless.pdf)
* https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-lazanski-users-threat-model-t
* https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-lazanski-protocol-sec-design-model-t
* https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-arkko-farrell-arch-model-t (slides: https://arkko.com/ietf/iab/model-t-preso-apr2020.pdf)
2. Planning
* Future calls/meetings assuming IETF108 is online-only - what would people like?
* AOB


## Participants: 
    
28 callers on Webex, those that signed their name were:
    
* Stephen Farrell, Trinity College Dublin
* Christian Huitema, Private Octopus Inc.
* Mohit Sethi, Ericsson
*  Jari Arkko, Ericsson
* Watson Ladd Cloudflare
* Ted Hardie, Google
* Mark McFadden, internet policy advisors ltd
* Randy Bush Internet Initiative Japan & Arrcus Inc
* Colin Perkins, University of Glasgow
* Marco Tiloca, RISE
* Tim Costello, BT
* Ira McDonald, High North
* Joachim Fabini, TU Wien
* Carsten Bormann, TZI
* Susan Hares, Hickory Hill 
* Russ Housley, Vigil Security, LLC
* Wendy Seltzer, W3C
* Jim Fenton, Altmode Networks
* Julien Maisonneuve, Nokia
* Dominique Lazanski, LPL
* Wes Hardaker, ISI
* Mirja Kühlewind, Ericsson
* Henk Birkholz, Fraunhofer SIT
*  Chris Wood, Cloudflare

## Agenda bash

No bash.

## McFaddedn (CLESS/SMART taxonomy)

Introduction:
* Hierarchical suggested, but draft stuck with flat
* Question about combining with revisions of RFC 7228
* Relation to work in SMART

How can you use these categories? They specify security characteristics, now protocol designers can build for those.  Plus potentially make it clear that, for instance, an application endpoint is its own unit, separate from the rest of the device.
* Devices can be in multiple categories: intent was to give multiple security considerations

Threat landscape vs Threat model
* Is management of device included? Possibly arbitrary grouping, but draft is aimnig to instead provide slices of a continuum. Management of classes of devices really improve the draft. If optimistic insert in each classes how the device is managed and its cababilities.

Work on RFC 7228 alignment, really good suggestions on improvement, try to turnaround new draft by May and appreciate comments from list then.

## Lazanski (users threat model and security considerations)

Users Threat Model
* Aims to give reason for an update: new data breeches
* Additional endpoint vulns. Not massive update

Security Considerations
* First draft
* Fills in from above
* Focuses on attack defenses
* Quite a few to add
* Identifying shortcomings in existing threat model: what can protocols do to protect? Next version make clearer what can change protocol design
* What can we do in network? Also to add
* Where should these be handled? Some different layers! Next pass will add this in
* How would this affect design or security considerations of protocols we already built? Draft is more awareness of the issues, different depending on different layers. All of this fits into one thing.
* Attacks taxonimized by assets? Absence of defense in depth: Will be added. Authors of draft-arkko-farrell-arch-model-t also promise to look at leaks, compromises, etc. through the asset aspect.
* Campaign is orchestration of attacks, defense disrupts it. Language for attack surface of the asset.
* Plan: revise in a month or two with feedback incorporated, reach out to people.

# Arkko Farrel (Arch Model T)

Question about open proxies, everything over 80: Interesting point to add

Overaching surveillence draft: needs to be added to same level as manipulation

Defenses against survellience don't map well onto advertising model concerns. Break apart to make building denfenses more obvious
Proceeding given Madrid unlikely

##  Next steps

Calls at some frequency?
* Schedule monthly

What's the project needs clarification. 
* Action: Stephen and Jari to email to list with what we'll aim for
