# Notes from the IETF-108 informal discussion on Model-T

An informal meeting was held on the Thursday of the IETF week, July 30th, 2020.

Previously during the IETF week, Stephen had given an update around this topic at the IAB Open session (slides: https://www.ietf.org/proceedings/108/slides/slides-108-iabopen-iab-open-slides-01 pages 22-23) and Jari had given an update in the SAAG meeting (slides: https://www.ietf.org/proceedings/108/slides/slides-108-saag-model-t-report-01)

During the informal meeting, the group went throug the list of participants on the call. Updates were given for their work, from discussion of threats, specific examples of issues, principles, design guidelines, and specific proposals that could be submitted to the IETF (e.g., on RFC 3552 and 7258 changes).

Discussion:

* Domique Lazanski offered to assist, if people are busy elsewhere.

* Roman Danyliw made the request that it would be very helpful to have reference documents that he could point to when RFCs come up in the IESG review and he needs a document to point to when there's an issue assuming that closed networks can be operated safely due to their closed nature.

* Kirsty Paine said that it would be useful to useful to think about the structure as jari suggested. Perhaps we can do a survey/catalog style publication. She was not sure RFC 7258 changes are in scope for model T. She also suggested that we take our time and review & think through everything carefully.

* Mallory Knodel noted that there had not been enough review of the new cless draft. Reviews requested!

* Martin Thomson noted that the unifying thing in our discussions is the malware, social network, etc. that are the attackers, but our approach to dealing with are very different.

* Sam Weiler noted that there's a document W3C (openly available document, best place to view in GitHub at https://w3cping.github.io/privacy-threat-model/ that is in this rough space. The document needs feedback and maybe restructuring. Our structures might inform that effort.

* Tommy C noted that there's a fair bit to do still. There's also a draft he and others from NCSC are working on. Do not rush, take time.

* Ben Kaduk said that he's here to listen. Maybe get couple of people to read all the documents?

Conclusions at the end of the call:

* take time, do careful work
* read drafts!
* support for rethinking the set of deliverables
* requests for review for two additional things (cless, w3c)
* Upcoming meeting on Aug 20th.

These notes were taken by Jari Arkko.
